The old woman had only one tooth that he could see. She mouthed words and he was not sure that any voice accompanied them. He stepped closer to her to try and hear what she was saying, though he could tell from the gesturing of her hands that she wanted something, a cigarette, he assumed though from a second glance he could see that she was already smoking.  As he neared she spoke with great effort but little volume something that he was unable to understand, it for its French for he had enough French to understand most beggars that approached him now) but because the voice was so strange and the manner so aggressive and the face so squashed and worn that the noises were not so much foreign as alien to him.

“I’m sorry” he said “I don’t understand”, but before he could finish she spoke again.

“I am hungry. Give me money”

Her voice, this time in English but still barely understandable, seemed not to pass her lips. The words stopped at her throat and collected there in a lump which would, he thought, need to be spat out onto the pavement in a phlegmy ball.

“I’m sorry” he replied (he wasn’t), “I don’t have anything” (he did), and he turned away and began to walk back down the rue de Cardinal Lemoine away from the café and the old lady.  

He wondered for a moment what insults and curses she would be collecting in her craw for him as he walked away to be spat after him before he would be out of earshot, which itself may not have been possible as her voice had lacked the power to cover the short ground from the pavement to to the road where he had stood.  He was also aware after a few steps of the lesson he had learned from the beggars of Paris, of how little would likely be made of of his non-contribution to the old woman’s cause.  Each time he had walked from a beggar claiming his own poverty and obliviousness with a clumsy mixture of hand gestures  and English or with a token single word of French “Desolé” he had seen how quickly they had moved on to the next  or about their own business. He could, he thought, have handed the old woman the entire contents of his wallet and received the same response.  The French were were arrogant even in the face of their own wretchedness. Then he cursed himself for being pompous and overdramatic and felt guilty for not giving her any money in the face of her apparent need.  But he was already walking away now and to return would be disingenuous.

He had walked the distance from his rented apartment on the rue de Cardinal lemoine to the top of the road to visit the place where Ernest Hemingway had lived for a time in the 1920s. He was here to write because of Hemingway though he knew he was not a writer. As he had walked up the hill he had seen on the left side of the road a plaque that told him that Joyce too had lived on this road once also and had written his great works there but he had read no Joyce and knew little of him as a writer or a man save for what he had learned from Hemingway and he was reminded how little he knew of literature and of the city and of history. Nonetheless he was learning. He would, he resolved, read some Joyce soon and he would not know a little less as he had done so with Hemingway and after that with Beckett following his trip to the cemetery.  This was, he believed, his duty.
	
He had not written a word since arriving in Paris. he had been here two days already and had up to this point been waiting for the arrival of some inspiration.  He had read a great deal, quickly, on the train journey and in the apartment and at the familiar parts of Paris that he had visited before. He had wanted that day to visit this site, the shrine of his pilgrimage and invoke a spirit of writing and of writerly discipline. He had kept himself hungry and had planned to visit a café and to sit and write and to see a girl as Hemingway had seen one and to own her and own Paris and from that point on to be owned by his paper and pen but he had his old lady, toothless and rasping, and he felt as if she now owned him and that the city had chosen to disown him and his paper and pencil were nowhere to be seen and for a moment he hated the old woman and imagined her end, abandoned by everyone, a victim of her own native ugliness. Then he cursed himself again for being overdramatic and tried to imagine the old woman as Hemingway’s own girl in the café from many years before. The he cursed himself once more.

Paris in the Summer is filled with a great number of beautiful women. As he walked he imagined each of the a French woman and from Paris though the odds were as likely that they were not. He disliked himself for the way that he looked at them but he enjoyed looking. He imagined each of them a character though this character was often the same. He attempted to define the differences between them and the women that he knew though he was not able to see that the main difference to be accounted for was simply that he did not know them. Instead he had decided it was the way they dressed. He liked the way they dressed and was easily distracted by the swinging of material and the outline of a body under a dress when it was caught by a breeze and how the city seemed to be filled with young, beautiful women or older beautiful women or old and curious looking men, but no young and handsome men (or if they were there he was able to look through or passed them onto the next person) and there was his old woman and he wondered what they, each of them, thought of him.

He walked down the rue de Cardinal Lemoine to the Boulevard St. Germain and across that to the river. Even if there were nothing to write down there, there would at least be some pretty people. He knew that his [idol] would have taken this trip many times and that the view would have been much the same and he enjoyed the closeness that he felt and was able to imagine as a fire engine passe with its siren sounding that this would have been as familiar a scene to ‘Tatie’ as it was to him now though really it would have been strange.  He walked the short distance along the Quai de la Tournelle until he reached the Pont de l’Acheveche.  Like the Pont des Arts the bridge was adorned with thousands of padlocks which he despised as they were a false thing and they were not Paris as he knew it and the were not old in the way that Paris was meant to be though they gave the impression of age in their seeming permanence and their rust. They were put there, he understood, by the tourists who looked not to own Paris like he wished to or as Hemingway had but to indelibly mark it and change it and leave it worse than when they had found it and he admired the padlock sellers who overpriced their goods to take advantage of this. He knew that these places were places where people who are lost in the city come to feel certainty and unafraid of Paris and this is why he despised these bridges and why he felt so much like he belonged to them also.

He continued to walk down the bank of the Seine and could see on the shore groups of younger people that could at a glance be taken for the young people of Paris.  He knew that these were groups of tourists. Visitors who, being young, hold the surety of youth and it is this that makes them look like they belong here, as they would anywhere, and he envies them their confidence that he does not feel and he pities them that they can only see themselves in the city and not the city as it is, alive.  He wishes he could see it to as he can see neither. He wishes he could speak French and imagines it would make all the difference in the world. He doesn't worry what the young people think of him as he knows they only think of themselves and each other.

He walks to the Shakespeare and Company bookshop and feels sad. He knows that it is not the bookshop that he needs it to be but is made less sad to think that it is the bookshop that it is and that is good.  He walks slowly through the shop looking at books that he will not buy or read. He can think of only one book and it is Ulysses and of course they have a copy and of course he may buy it and he does. The shopgirl is young and fresh and she looks at him kindly and for a moment he feels unique and is able to not think of the many copies of that book and of the books like it that have been sold to people just like him by people younger than him who know more and understand more about thing that he is calling his purpose than he does now or will and he thinks to buy another book but does not, for now, know which to ask for.

The sun is less high now but it is still warm and he decides to walk to the Musee du Luxembourg and read his book in the gardens or try to read because he knows that he will be distracted when he is there by the people in their fine clothes with their brown legs sitting, themselves reading, or having arguments in French or in their family’s language.  He walks down the Boulevard St. Michel.  It is wide and it is Paris and he must look occasionally at his map, which he has done since he has been there and he hates, to make his way to the garden. It is OK, he thinks, because it is true and if it were not he would be lost and wandering and he is happy because he knows his way for next time.  He enters the garden. It is grand and beautiful. He moves a chair into the shade to a spot where he can see the flowers and the fountain and, in the distance, the Tour Eiffel. He takes out his book which is old and it has writing in it made by a previous owner. He looks around and smiles at an old woman who is sat to his right and smiles to himself at the sight of a beautiful woman sat several yards in front of him talking animatedly on her phone.  He begins to try and read his book and it is good. 

		
